---
title: Course Introduction
module: 1
---

## Welcome to S.E.A. Change Summer 2023


<div class="tab">
  <button class="tablinks active" onclick="openTab(event, 'Overview')">Overview</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Expect')">What to Expect</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Goals')">Goals</button>
  <button class="tablinks" onclick="openTab(event, 'Week')">Rest of the Day</button>  
</div>

<!-- Tab content -->
<div id="Overview" class="tabcontent" style="display:block">

<p>This summer camp combines storytelling and programming in an introductory manner so that it can become a tool for art, creativity, and fun.</p>
<p>The goal is to begin a journey in which you use the computer to expand your creative and technical possibilities.  I want your computer to be another tool in your creative palate. These tools will become an extension of you, something you think through, express yourself through, and can contribute to the world through.</p> <p> The course design offers you a deeper understanding of the essential possibilities of computation.</p>

</div>

<div id="Expect" class="tabcontent">
<p>This camp will expose you to new technologies while also thinking about design and content creation. Some modules will lean more technical, while others will lean more creative-based.</p>
<p>I want you to have a chance to practice with these new technologies and techniques, so you feel comfortable with them. Some modules will hopefully feel as if you are exploring and playing a little more.</p>
</div>

<div id="Goals" class="tabcontent">
<p>There are four high-level goals for this camp</p>
<ol>
<li>Learn how to effectively tell stories</li>
<li> Learn how to problem-solve. (More specifically, how to break a problem down into sub-problems that are easier to solve by themselves)</li>
<li> Adapt to continually changing technological paradigms by learning how to learn. (Skills acquisition.)</li>
<li> Combine technical and artistic practices through inquiry and iteration.</li>

</ol>
</div>

<div id="Week" class="tabcontent">
<p>The rest of this module will introduce the following;</p>
<ul>
<li> Online storytelling tools</li>
<li> Creating your sttory</li>
<li> Introduction of Artificial Intelligence</li>
<li> Creating a story using AI</li>
</ul>
</div>